AI (artificial intel, eh boring / low market cap):
VeChain, IOTA, DGB, GNY

Analytics (It's very hard to look for info on the blockchain, these companies looking to the "google" of crypto.. low MC):
GRT, 1INCH, DEXT, UWL, VISION

AMM (automated money maker. gonna be huge, already is. TLDR is "Uniswap uses a trading funding pool to match bid and ask prices. It then determines the asset price via the constant function market makers. Liquidity here refers to how much money is staked in the funding pool. Investors can earn liquidity mining rewards by supplying tokens or "staking" their tokens into liquidity pools"):
UNI, SUSHI, KNC, BAL, 1INCH, CURVE

DEX (Decentralized Exchanges. self explanatory. platform to trade assets with no verification / 3rd party fees / etc. HUGE potential):
UNI, SUSHI, Balancer, Kyber, Loopring, 0x

Options (self explanatory also, stuff like hedging):
HEGIC, AUCTUS, FinNexus

Derivatives (imo the biggest potential for long term plays given how big this market is in the real-world):
SNX, HEGIC, UMA, COVER, DerivaDAO, Augur

Entertainment (this is a big market with lots of potential, i'm not too exposed)
ENJ, THETA, Denctraland, ULTRA, WINK

NFT (Non-fungible tokens. very interesting field. money is fungible, most products are fungible. Just means 1 dollar = 1 dollar or 1 can of coke is indistinguishable from another in terms of value. These coins are big in the art /gaming scene cause of counterfeit / ownership):
ENJ, Denctraland, AXIE, ULTRA, SAND, WAX, NFTX

Oracle (HUGE potential. Oracles provide off-chain (real world) data to the blockchain. For example, those Automated Money Makers / DEXes need to know the current price of assets to a tee so they aren't susceptible to arbitrage. Or maybe for gambling sites, giving stats/scores to Decentralized world):
LINK, API3, UMA, BAND, AUGUR

Privacy Coins (risky short term as most have been getting kicked off exchanges. Just means they are working as intended. These coins make transactions anonymous. Big misconception here is that Bitcoin is anonymous. No, the ledger is public and all exchanges need to report addresses when users exchange FIAT/Crypto, so it's so easy to follow the trail):
XMR, DASH, ZCash, DGB, Horizen, Secret

Smart Contract (This is what ethereum is. It's a base layer for other projects to run on top of.):
ETH, ADA, LINK, XLM, TEZOS

Yield Farming (Earning interest on lending or staking coins. Gaining so much in popularity):
AAVE, SNX, UNI, Yearn.FI, SUSHI, COMP, Balanacer, ROOK, CAKE 

here's my updated list of coins broken down by type of coin, sorted by how much I like the project

